format.md, before:

# Format

### Description

- **Date(s)**: 2014-08-06 (Created), 2015-04-06 (Updated), 2015-05-15 (Updated)
- **Status**: Work in progress

### Conventions

> The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119).

# 1 General

## 1.1 Media type JSON

The media type of a Yahapi document is **`application/json`**.

There are no plans to register a Yahapi-specific media type.

# 2 Single resource object

A Yahapi document **MUST** contain at least one resource. A minimum valid document is:

```
{}
```

## 2.1 type

A resource object **MUST** have a `type` property if it contains different properties than other resources in the same collection.

All resource object with the same `type` **MUST** have the same set of properties.

The following is correct:

```
GET /products/9016
{
  "type": "food",
  "id": 9016,
  "expirationDate": "2015-03-06"
}

GET /products/9017
{
  "type": "non-food",
  "id": 9017
}
```

The following is incorrect assuming `expirationDate` is mandatory:

```
GET /products/9016
{
  "type": "food",
  "id": 9016,
  "expirationDate": "2015-03-06"
}

GET /products/9017
{
  "type": "food",
  "id": 9017
}
```

## 2.2 links

A resource object **SHOULD** contain a `links` property containing valid URLs keyed by their [relationship](http://www.iana.org/assignments/link-relations/link-relations.xml) relative to the current resource.

```
{
  …
  "links": {
    "self": { "href": "/orders/001342" },
    "payment": { "href": "/payment/53415" }
  }
}
```

When a `link` property is set it **SHOULD** contain a `self`-link.

### 2.2.1 links.*.href

Every `links` object **MUST** contain a `href` property (hypertext reference) with a valid URL.

### 2.2.2 links.*.*

A `links` object **MAY** contain additional properties for the purpose of content negation.

## 2.3 meta

A resource **MAY** contain a `meta` property with properties describing the design and specification of the resource object.

# 3 Collection resource

A collection resource is a list of resource objects and may support ordering, filtering and/or paginating through them.

## 3.1 Element properties

A collection resource **MUST** be homogeneous and contain only elements with a shared set of properties.

*The following is invalid if either `items.name` or `items.id` are mandatory*:

```
{
  "items": [
    { name: "John" },
    { id: 1234 }
  ]
}
```

## 3.2 Element type

A collection resource **MAY** contain different `types` if all types share the same abstraction. In the following example all items are considered a `product`:

```
{
  "products": [
    {
      "type": "food",
      "id": 4897884,
      "expirationDate": "2015-03-06"
    },
    {
      "type": "non-food",
      "id": 9016
    }
  ]
}
```

## 3.3 Pagination

A collection resource too large to fit in a single message usually supports some way to paginate through the collection results.

A response of a paginated collection resource looks something like this:

```
GET /products?offset=20&limit=10

{
  "products": [ … ],
  "links": {
    "next": { "href": "https://api.example.com/products?offset=30&limit=10" },
    "previous": { "href": "https://api.example.com/products?offset=10&limit=10" }
  },
  "meta": {
    "total": 46,
    "limit": 10,
    "offset": 20
  }
}
```

### 3.3.1 URL request parameters

A paginated collection resource **SHOULD** support `offset` and `limit` url query parameters to paginate through a collection resource.

```
GET /products?offset=20&limit=10
```

### 3.3.2 links.next and links.previous

A paginated collection resource **MUST** return `links.next` and `links.previous` to paginate through the collection unless there is no next or previous page.

### 3.3.3 meta.total

A paginated collection resource **SHOULD** return the number of items available in the collection using `meta.total`.

### 3.3.4 meta.limit

A paginated collection resource **SHOULD** return the number of records returned using `meta.limit`.

### 3.3.5 meta.offset

A paginated collection resource **SHOULD** return the number of items skipped using `meta.offset`.

## 3.4 Ordering

There are no strict rules about the *default* ordering of a collection. A collection may be ordered by default in ascending or descending order for any property that makes the most sense for your use case.

### 3.4.1 Client sort

A collection resource **MAY** support client sort in a collection by adding a `sort` parameter to the query string.

```
GET /products?sort=type
```

### 3.4.2 Ascending or descending

The default order of a `sort` query parameter **MUST** be ascending.

To sort a collection in descending order the value of a `sort` query parameter **MUST** start with a minus symbol (`-`).

```
GET /products?sort=-expirationDate
```

### 3.4.3 Multiple sort criteria

A collection resource supporting multiple sort criteria **SHOULD** allow multiple criteria in the `sort` query string separated by comma's:

```
GET /products?sort=type,-expirationDate
```

The query string in the example above sorts products by `type` in ascending order first, and sorts all items of the same `type` by `expirationDate` in descending order.

# 4 Embedded resources

## 4.1 Embedded resource object identity
An embedded resource object MUST have at least a `type`, `links` or `meta` property or be referenced within the parent resource object in the their `links` with an identical name.

```
GET /persons/john

{
  "name": "John",
  "address": {
    "street": "221A Baker Street",
    "type": "home-address"
  },
  "links": {
    "self": { "href": "/persons/john" },
    "address": { "href": "https://api.example.com/addresses/16342" }
  }
}
```

The example above shows a resource `person` with an embedded resource `address`. The `address` is identified as a resource object based on the presence of a `type` property and because a `links` relationship exists with the same name as the object property.

> Note: top-level resources are always identified as a resource and do not have these requirements.

## 4.2 Embedded collection resource

An embedded collection resource **SHOULD NOT** support pagination.

An embedded collection resource **SHOULD NOT** support ordering.

An embedded collection should be kept simple and contain either the entire or most relevant subset of items. Embedding a collection resource is an optimization to support the most common use cases for your API, no more.

# 5. Errors

An error object **MUST** be returned when the HTTP status code is in the 400-499.

An error object **SHOULD** be returned when the HTTP status code is 500-599.

Example:

```
{
  "code": "validation-error",
  "message": "One or more request parameters are invalid",
  "errors": [
    {
      "code": "invalid-type",
      "path": "/parentId",
      "message": "invalid type: string (expected number)"
    }, {
      "code": "maximum-decimals",
      "path": "/amount",
      "message": "must have no more than 2 decimals"
    }
  ]
}
```

## 5.1 error.code

An error **SHOULD** contain a `code` property with an error description suitable for machine interpretation.

## 5.2 error.message

An error **SHOULD** contain a `message` property with an error description in a human-readable format.

## 5.3 error.errors[]

An error **MAY** contain an `errors` property with a list of sub-errors.

Sub-errors are used when multiple errors were detected that fall within the same category.

A sub-error is a normal error but **SHOULD NOT** contain `status` or `errors` properties.

## 5.5 error.errors[].path

A sub-error **MAY** contain a `path` property to let the client identify which request parameter was the cause of the problem.

Nested objects in `error.path` are separated by a slash (e.g. `/root/nested/property`).

Array elements in `error.path` are identified by their index between brackets starting with zero (e.g. `/root/children[0]/name`).

```
{
  "files": [
    {
      "id": "123",
      "extension": "png"
    },
    {
      "id": 56,
      "extension": "png"
    }
  ]
}
```

The request above might return the following error response:

```
{
  "code": "validation-error",
  "message": "One or more request parameters are invalid",
  "errors": [
    {
      "code": "invalid-type",
      "path": "/files[1]/id",
      "message": "invalid type: number (expected string)"
    }
  ]
}
```

# 6. Style and encoding

## 6.1 Use UTF-8

Your character encoding **MUST** be UTF-8.

```
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
```

## 6.1 lowerCamelCase or snake_case

Your property names **MUST** should be written consistently in either [lowerCamelCase](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CamelCase) or [snake_case](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snake_case).

## 6.2 Property names must be predictable

Your property names **MUST** be predictable, avoid property names that are dynamically generated by the context.

Predictable API's are easier to parse in static languages and are better supported in technologies such as [JSON Path](http://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/) and [JSON Schema](http://json-schema.org/).

## 6.3 Date format

All dates **MUST** be formatted using [ISO 8601](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601).

Avoid unix timestamps.

## 6.4 Use HTTPS

Your API **SHOULD** use HTTPS encrypting with SSL/TLS.

## 6.5 Cross-domain requests

If you need to support cross-domain requests you **SHOULD** use CORS, not JSONP.

# Update History

2015-05-15:

- Removed `error.status` property.
- Removed reserved words.
- Links are allowed to contain additional properties for the purpose of content negotiation.
- `prev` link renamed to `previous`.
- Strengthened resource type requirement from SHOULD to MUST.

2015-04-06:

- Error response no longer wrapped within `error` object.
- Weakened `error.status` requirement from SHOULD to MAY.
- Removed absolute url requirement for `links`.
- Strengthened resource type requirement from MAY to SHOULD.

2014-08-06:

- First draft

Commit message:

Weakened meta.total requirement and added meta.size for paginated collections

format.md, after:

# Format

### Description

- **Date(s)**: 2014-08-06 (Created), 2015-04-06 (Updated), 2015-05-15 (Updated)
- **Status**: Work in progress

### Conventions

> The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119).

# 1 General

## 1.1 Media type JSON

The media type of a Yahapi document is **`application/json`**.

There are no plans to register a Yahapi-specific media type.

# 2 Single resource object

A Yahapi document **MUST** contain at least one resource. A minimum valid document is:

```
{}
```

## 2.1 type

A resource object **MUST** have a `type` property if it contains different properties than other resources in the same collection.

All resource object with the same `type` **MUST** have the same set of properties.

The following is correct:

```
GET /products/9016
{
  "type": "food",
  "id": 9016,
  "expirationDate": "2015-03-06"
}

GET /products/9017
{
  "type": "non-food",
  "id": 9017
}
```

The following is incorrect assuming `expirationDate` is mandatory:

```
GET /products/9016
{
  "type": "food",
  "id": 9016,
  "expirationDate": "2015-03-06"
}

GET /products/9017
{
  "type": "food",
  "id": 9017
}
```

## 2.2 links

A resource object **SHOULD** contain a `links` property containing valid URLs keyed by their [relationship](http://www.iana.org/assignments/link-relations/link-relations.xml) relative to the current resource.

```
{
  …
  "links": {
    "self": { "href": "/orders/001342" },
    "payment": { "href": "/payment/53415" }
  }
}
```

When a `link` property is set it **SHOULD** contain a `self`-link.

### 2.2.1 links.*.href

Every `links` object **MUST** contain a `href` property (hypertext reference) with a valid URL.

### 2.2.2 links.*.*

A `links` object **MAY** contain additional properties for the purpose of content negation.

## 2.3 meta

A resource **MAY** contain a `meta` property with properties describing the design and specification of the resource object.

# 3 Collection resource

A collection resource is a list of resource objects and may support ordering, filtering and/or paginating through them.

## 3.1 Element properties

A collection resource **MUST** be homogeneous and contain only elements with a shared set of properties.

*The following is invalid if either `items.name` or `items.id` are mandatory*:

```
{
  "items": [
    { name: "John" },
    { id: 1234 }
  ]
}
```

## 3.2 Element type

A collection resource **MAY** contain different `types` if all types share the same abstraction. In the following example all items are considered a `product`:

```
{
  "products": [
    {
      "type": "food",
      "id": 4897884,
      "expirationDate": "2015-03-06"
    },
    {
      "type": "non-food",
      "id": 9016
    }
  ]
}
```

## 3.3 Pagination

A collection resource too large to fit in a single message usually supports some way to paginate through the collection results.

A response of a paginated collection resource looks something like this:

```
GET /products?offset=20&limit=10

{
  "products": [ … ],
  "links": {
    "next": { "href": "https://api.example.com/products?offset=30&limit=10" },
    "previous": { "href": "https://api.example.com/products?offset=10&limit=10" }
  },
  "meta": {
    "total": 46,
    "limit": 10,
    "offset": 20
  }
}
```

### 3.3.1 URL request parameters

A paginated collection resource **SHOULD** support `offset` and `limit` url query parameters to paginate through a collection resource.

```
GET /products?offset=20&limit=10
```

### 3.3.2 links.next and links.previous

A paginated collection resource **MUST** return `links.next` and `links.previous` to paginate through the collection unless there is no next or previous page.

### 3.3.3 meta.total

A paginated collection resource **MAY** return the number of items available in the collection using `meta.total`.

### 3.3.4 meta.limit

A paginated collection resource **SHOULD** return the number of records returned using `meta.limit`.

### 3.3.5 meta.offset

A paginated collection resource **SHOULD** return the number of items skipped using `meta.offset`.

### 3.3.5 meta.size

A paginated collection resource **MAY** return the number of items returned in the response using `meta.size`.

## 3.4 Ordering

There are no strict rules about the *default* ordering of a collection. A collection may be ordered by default in ascending or descending order for any property that makes the most sense for your use case.

### 3.4.1 Client sort

A collection resource **MAY** support client sort in a collection by adding a `sort` parameter to the query string.

```
GET /products?sort=type
```

### 3.4.2 Ascending or descending

The default order of a `sort` query parameter **MUST** be ascending.

To sort a collection in descending order the value of a `sort` query parameter **MUST** start with a minus symbol (`-`).

```
GET /products?sort=-expirationDate
```

### 3.4.3 Multiple sort criteria

A collection resource supporting multiple sort criteria **SHOULD** allow multiple criteria in the `sort` query string separated by comma's:

```
GET /products?sort=type,-expirationDate
```

The query string in the example above sorts products by `type` in ascending order first, and sorts all items of the same `type` by `expirationDate` in descending order.

# 4 Embedded resources

## 4.1 Embedded resource object identity
An embedded resource object MUST have at least a `type`, `links` or `meta` property or be referenced within the parent resource object in the their `links` with an identical name.

```
GET /persons/john

{
  "name": "John",
  "address": {
    "street": "221A Baker Street",
    "type": "home-address"
  },
  "links": {
    "self": { "href": "/persons/john" },
    "address": { "href": "https://api.example.com/addresses/16342" }
  }
}
```

The example above shows a resource `person` with an embedded resource `address`. The `address` is identified as a resource object based on the presence of a `type` property and because a `links` relationship exists with the same name as the object property.

> Note: top-level resources are always identified as a resource and do not have these requirements.

## 4.2 Embedded collection resource

An embedded collection resource **SHOULD NOT** support pagination.

An embedded collection resource **SHOULD NOT** support ordering.

An embedded collection should be kept simple and contain either the entire or most relevant subset of items. Embedding a collection resource is an optimization to support the most common use cases for your API, no more.

# 5. Errors

An error object **MUST** be returned when the HTTP status code is in the 400-499.

An error object **SHOULD** be returned when the HTTP status code is 500-599.

Example:

```
{
  "code": "validation-error",
  "message": "One or more request parameters are invalid",
  "errors": [
    {
      "code": "invalid-type",
      "path": "/parentId",
      "message": "invalid type: string (expected number)"
    }, {
      "code": "maximum-decimals",
      "path": "/amount",
      "message": "must have no more than 2 decimals"
    }
  ]
}
```

## 5.1 error.code

An error **SHOULD** contain a `code` property with an error description suitable for machine interpretation.

## 5.2 error.message

An error **SHOULD** contain a `message` property with an error description in a human-readable format.

## 5.3 error.errors[]

An error **MAY** contain an `errors` property with a list of sub-errors.

Sub-errors are used when multiple errors were detected that fall within the same category.

A sub-error is a normal error but **SHOULD NOT** contain `status` or `errors` properties.

## 5.5 error.errors[].path

A sub-error **MAY** contain a `path` property to let the client identify which request parameter was the cause of the problem.

Nested objects in `error.path` are separated by a slash (e.g. `/root/nested/property`).

Array elements in `error.path` are identified by their index between brackets starting with zero (e.g. `/root/children[0]/name`).

```
{
  "files": [
    {
      "id": "123",
      "extension": "png"
    },
    {
      "id": 56,
      "extension": "png"
    }
  ]
}
```

The request above might return the following error response:

```
{
  "code": "validation-error",
  "message": "One or more request parameters are invalid",
  "errors": [
    {
      "code": "invalid-type",
      "path": "/files[1]/id",
      "message": "invalid type: number (expected string)"
    }
  ]
}
```

# 6. Style and encoding

## 6.1 Use UTF-8

Your character encoding **MUST** be UTF-8.

```
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
```

## 6.1 lowerCamelCase or snake_case

Your property names **MUST** should be written consistently in either [lowerCamelCase](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CamelCase) or [snake_case](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snake_case).

## 6.2 Property names must be predictable

Your property names **MUST** be predictable, avoid property names that are dynamically generated by the context.

Predictable API's are easier to parse in static languages and are better supported in technologies such as [JSON Path](http://goessner.net/articles/JsonPath/) and [JSON Schema](http://json-schema.org/).

## 6.3 Date format

All dates **MUST** be formatted using [ISO 8601](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601).

Avoid unix timestamps.

## 6.4 Use HTTPS

Your API **SHOULD** use HTTPS encrypting with SSL/TLS.

## 6.5 Cross-domain requests

If you need to support cross-domain requests you **SHOULD** use CORS, not JSONP.

# Update History

2015-05-16:

- Weakened `meta.total` from SHOULD to MAY.
- Added `meta.size` which MAY contain the number of items returned in the response.

2015-05-15:

- Removed `error.status` property.
- Removed reserved words.
- Links are allowed to contain additional properties for the purpose of content negotiation.
- `prev` link renamed to `previous`.
- Strengthened resource type requirement from SHOULD to MUST.

2015-04-06:

- Error response no longer wrapped within `error` object.
- Weakened `error.status` requirement from SHOULD to MAY.
- Removed absolute url requirement for `links`.
- Strengthened resource type requirement from MAY to SHOULD.

2014-08-06:

- First draft
