examples/embedded_collection.md, before:

# Embedded collection resource

An embedded collection resource is a resource collection within a single resource object or another collection.

Embedded collection resources are primarily used to minimize network requests between client and server.

Yahapi does not support paginating or sorting embedded collection resources. Embedded collection resources are an optimization for frequent common API requests, they are not intended to replace collection resources. 

**Example**

This example shows an `order` with an embedded collection resource `orderItems`.

```
GET /orders/43983
{
    "id": 43983,
    "created": "2014-08-05T16:22:16.992Z",
    "customerId": "914",
    "type": "order",
    "orderItems": [
        {
            "orderItemId": "912332",
            "type": "orderItem",
            "productId": "EZ-21562",
            "amount": 3,
            "links": {
                "self": { "href": "https://api.example.com/orders/43983/items/912332" },
                "product": { "href": "https://api.example.com/products/EZ-21562" }
            }
        },
        {
            "orderItemId": "912333",
            "type": "orderItem",
            "productId": "AF-49841",
            "amount": 1,
            "links": {
                "self": { "href": "https://api.example.com/orders/43983/items/912333" },
                "product": { "href": "https://api.example.com/products/AF-49841" }
            }
        }
    ],
    "links": {
        "self": { "href": "https://api.example.com/orders/43983" },
        "customer": { "href": "https://api.example.com/customers/914" },
        "items": { "href": "https://api.example.com/orders/43983/items" }
    },
    "meta": {
      "retrieved": "2014-08-06T11:38:24.162Z"
   }
}
```

Commit message:

Renamed `prev` link to `previous Strengthened resource type requirement from SHOULD to MUST`

examples/embedded_collection.md, after:

# Embedded collection resource

An embedded collection resource is a resource collection within a single resource object or another collection.

Embedded collection resources are primarily used to minimize network requests between client and server.

Yahapi does not support paginating or sorting embedded collection resources. Embedded collection resources are an optimization for frequent common API requests, they are not intended to replace collection resources.

**Example**

This example shows an `order` with an embedded collection resource `orderItems`.

```
GET /orders/43983
{
    "id": 43983,
    "created": "2014-08-05T16:22:16.992Z",
    "customerId": "914",
    "type": "order",
    "orderItems": [
        {
            "orderItemId": "912332",
            "type": "orderItem",
            "productId": "EZ-21562",
            "amount": 3,
            "links": {
                "self": { "href": "https://api.example.com/orders/43983/items/912332" },
                "product": { "href": "https://api.example.com/products/EZ-21562" }
            }
        },
        {
            "orderItemId": "912333",
            "type": "orderItem",
            "productId": "AF-49841",
            "amount": 1,
            "links": {
                "self": { "href": "https://api.example.com/orders/43983/items/912333" },
                "product": { "href": "https://api.example.com/products/AF-49841" }
            }
        }
    ],
    "links": {
        "self": { "href": "https://api.example.com/orders/43983" },
        "customer": { "href": "https://api.example.com/customers/914" },
        "items": { "href": "https://api.example.com/orders/43983/items" }
    },
    "meta": {
      "retrieved": "2014-08-06T11:38:24.162Z"
   }
}
```

### TODO add next/previous/first/last links...
